# 161\_162\_SNMP

## Background

* Simple Network Management Protocol \(SNMP\).  Used to manage devices on the network by having a central server \(manager\) send SNMP SET or SNMP GET requests out to clients \(agents\) to either make changes on their MIB \(below\) or just query information, respectively. 
* Each agent has a Management Information Base \(MIB\) that is used to respond to SNMP GET/SET requests.  It's a database organized as a tree with different branches containing different information \(username data, processes, etc.\).  The leaf at the end of each branch is the actual data. 
* SNMP protocols 1,2 and 2c does not encrypt its traffic. So it can be intercepted to steal credentials. 
* Community String = Password for this protocol. 
* Works off of UDP which means it is inherently susceptible to IP spoofing and replay attacks \(capture the community string and replay it for authentication\). 

## Enumeration

### Default Community String

* Read-only for GET is 'public'. 
* Read-write for SET is 'private'. 
* Sometimes 'community' works too. 
* CISCO devices 
  * Cable-docsis 
  * ILMI

### SNMP-CHECK

* Easier to use than SNMPWALK and better output

  ```text
  snmp-check -t [IP Address] -c [community string]
  ```

### NMap

```text
nmap [IP] -p 161,162 -sU --open -vvv -o [file output location].[extension]
```

```text
nmap -vv -sV -sU -Pn -p 161,162 --script=snmp-netstat,snmp-processes,snmp-info [IP]
```

### Metasploit \(SNMP\_ENUM\)

```text
Msf > use auxiliary/scanner/snmp/snmp_enum  
MSF > set Rhosts [IP]
MSF > run
```

* You can also use the search or searchsploit functionality to find other enumeration / exploit tools for SNMP.

### OneSixtyOne

* Create a file of community strings to try \(public, private, manager\) and a list of IP's to try against. 

  ```text
  onesixtyone –c [community string] -I [IP]
  ```

### SNMPWALK

* Requires at least read-only access to the target running the service \(know at least the SNMP read-only community string\).  Used to walk through each branch to pull out the data \(leaves\). 

  ```text
  snmpwalk -c [community string] -v [version(1, 2, 2c)] [IP] [MIB tree entry number]
  ```

* This will output a lot of information of which most is not relevant. 
  * Easier to request specific information \(or grep it\) - notable locations for sensitive information include: 
    * 1.3.6.1.2.1.25.1.6.0 System Processes 
    * 1.3.6.1.2.1.25.4.2.1.2 Running Programs 
    * 1.3.6.1.2.1.25.4.2.1.4 Processes Path 
    * 1.3.6.1.2.1.25.2.3.1.4 Storage Units 
    * 1.3.6.1.2.1.25.6.3.1.2 Software Name 
    * 1.3.6.1.4.1.77.1.2.25 User Accounts 
    * 1.3.6.1.2.1.6.13.1.3 TCP Local Ports 
    * 1.3.6.1.2.1.1.5 Hostnames 
    * 1.3.6.1.4.1.77.1.4.2 Domain Name 
    * 1.3.6.1.4.1.77.1.2.27 Share Information

